"list-gi-version-minor-versions"
********************************

* Description

* Usage

* Required Parameters

* Optional Parameters

* Global Parameters


Description
===========

Gets a list of supported Oracle Grid Infrastructure minor versions for
the given major version and shape family.


Usage
=====

   oci db gi-minor-version-summary list-gi-version-minor-versions [OPTIONS]


Required Parameters
===================

--version-parameterconflict [text]

The Oracle Grid Infrastructure major version.


Optional Parameters
===================

--all

Fetches all pages of results. If you provide this option, then you
cannot provide the "--limit" option.

--availability-domain [text]

The target availability domain. Only passed if the limit is AD-
specific.

--compartment-id, -c [text]

The compartment OCID.

--from-json [text]

Provide input to this command as a JSON document from a file using the
file://path-to/file syntax.

The "--generate-full-command-json-input" option can be used to
generate a sample json file to be used with this command option. The
key names are pre-populated and match the command option names
(converted to camelCase format, e.g. compartment-id –> compartmentId),
while the values of the keys need to be populated by the user before
using the sample file as an input to this command. For any command
option that accepts multiple values, the value of the key can be a
JSON array.

Options can still be provided on the command line. If an option exists
in both the JSON document and the command line then the command line
specified value will be used.

For examples on usage of this option, please see our “using CLI with
advanced JSON options” link: https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Conte
nt/API/SDKDocs/cliusing.htm#AdvancedJSONOptions

--is-gi-version-for-provisioning [boolean]

If true, returns the Grid Infrastructure versions that can be used for
provisioning a cluster

--limit [integer]

The maximum number of items to return per page.

--page [text]

The pagination token to continue listing from.

--page-size [integer]

When fetching results, the number of results to fetch per call. Only
valid when used with "--all" or "--limit", and ignored otherwise.

--shape [text]

If provided, filters the results for the given shape.

--shape-family [text]

If provided, filters the results to the set of database versions which
are supported for the given shape family.

Accepted values are:

   EXACC, EXADATA, EXADB_XS, SINGLENODE, VIRTUALMACHINE, YODA

--sort-by [text]

Sort by VERSION.  Default order for VERSION is descending.

Accepted values are:

   VERSION

--sort-order [text]

The sort order to use, either ascending (*ASC*) or descending
(*DESC*).

Accepted values are:

   ASC, DESC


Global Parameters
=================

Use "oci --help" for help on global parameters.

"--auth-purpose", "--auth", "--cert-bundle", "--cli-auto-prompt", "--
cli-rc-file", "--config-file", "--connection-timeout", "--debug", "--
defaults-file", "--endpoint", "--generate-full-command-json-input", "
--generate-param-json-input", "--help", "--latest-version", "--max-
retries", "--no-retry", "--opc-client-request-id", "--opc-request-id",
"--output", "--profile", "--proxy", "--query", "--raw-output", "--
read-timeout", "--realm-specific-endpoint", "--region", "--release-
info", "--request-id", "--version", "-?", "-d", "-h", "-i", "-v"
